---
layout: post
title: Pocket Gems (Question 1,2,4)
tags: []
---

### Question 1
#### Top Entertainment platforms

Some of the top entertainment platforms that I have personally used: 
* Steam, 
* Netflix, 
* Amazon, 
* Alamo Drafthouse
* Spotify
* Songza (now part of Google Play)

#### a. What makes them successful?

In no particular order, I have listed below the factors that I enjoy most from these services and I believe are also responsible for their success.

**Consistency:** One of the things that standout for me in all of the above mentioned platforms is the consistency. With Steam, it doesn't matter which platform I am using. I started using it on a Windows machine and have since installed it on a Linux desktop and a Mac laptop. All my purchases are intact and I can easily install and play (almost) all my games. With Netflix, Amazon and Spotify, I can switch between different devices and still be able to watch movies, listen to music, read my books. They all remember where I last left off and provides easy access to my content. 

The Alamo Drafthouse is a theater chain. I first experienced it when it opened in San Francisco. Getting to watch genre movies with food served right where you are seated, is a fun experience. When I visited their Austin theater, I expected a similar experience and I was not disappointed. 

Providing the user with a familiar and pleasant experience is important. The user knows exactly how to go about achieving what they want with the product. 

**Reliability:** Their services are almost always available. I don't remember the last time their services were down. 

Even if the services are down for some percent of the time, it can be very frustrating for the user. I am using an enterprise account with GitHub and their service has been down few times in the last 4 months. Even though the downtime must be around 95-99%, it is the 1%-5% that the developers remember and complain about.

**Customer Support:** The customer support for Amazon and Netflix are excellent. They trust their customers and ensure that resolving the problem is as easy as possible. If I have a problem with an order, I can leave my phone number with Amazon and they will call me back when I am next in line. I can return products without providing any proof for my reason to return the product. They are constantly rated high in customer satisfaction.
 
I have been an Airbnb customer for many years and recently I had to cancel a stay because I had trouble sleeping through the night. There was a rail track right next to the apartment with trains running every hour. This was not listed in the description when I first made the purchase. I contacted Airbnb and requested a refund. But I was informed that since I stayed the night, I shall not be refunded for the night. I can understand why they have this policy as it can be misused by users. But given that I have been a long time customer, there is very little chance for me to be lying about this. Ideally, they should have accepted my reasoning and provided the refund. Now, because of their poor service, tomorrow if there is another alternative to Airbnb, I would switch in a second. Whereas with Amazon and Netflix, I would be loyal and expect the competitor to be top notch to consider switching.

**Quality and Quantity of Content:** All these platforms, have built a fine collection of content that includes both original and licensed. And they provide tools to easily wade through the content through recommendations, categorization and community reviews. Alamo Drafthouse are associated with supporting and promoting genre films. They have a "Alamo Recommends" section which lists the must watch films. They run a weekly series of programs focusing on different genres and obscure films and having a strong connection with the film community. Many actors and directors visit the theater to have a QnA sessions with the theater audience. 

**Innovative:** Netflix and Amazon invest a lot on technology. They are constantly making changes and changing before their competitors do. Netflix's transition from discs to streaming, their initiative to producing original content, Amazon using robots in their warehouses and using drones for delivery, are all examples of innovation. These not only improve the quality of service but also help keep their costs low. Spotify have been innovative by moving beyond songs and adding features like Radio, Concerts and Podcasts. Alamo Drafthouse hosts the Fantastic Film Festival every year and over the years they have improved the process of ticketing. They even have a process in place for ticket holders to get to their theaters without any hassles (since multiple movies are playing in different screens at the same time). All this has been possible because they have embraced technology unlike other theaters and film festivals. 

**Community:** Through social media or through their own websites, they have provided a platform for users to communicate with each other and bring about a feeling of community.



#### b. How do people get hooked?

To get people hooked you need to provide a great first time experience. The user interface (whether in-person or through an app) should be simple and there should be as few paths as possible to get to the content the user wants. Amazon have so many different types of products besides books. But because they have well defined and granular categories, it is easy for the user to find what s/he wants. The same holds true for Netflix. 

The search options in these services are exhaustive and easily sortable. The sections and features are clearly laid out. This is important because If the collection seems overwhelming then the user might soon lose interest. 

When you first get to your seat in the Alamo Drafthouse, a server tells you how to order food and when the bill will be brought out so that there is no confusion during the screening of the movie. Before the movie starts, there is a very clear (and usually funny) video message to shut off cell phones. All through the process they make you feel they you are being cared for and they your experience is of utmost importance. 

We all know the saying “The Customer comes first”. It is important to put it into practice.


#### c. What makes them come back?

An entertainment platform needs to have the content the user is looking for. But scaling up the services to support all the needs of the user is not feasible. Instead, a strong recommendation system is very important to drive users to content they might be interested even if they are not looking for it. 

I have listed Songza (now defunct) above which is one of the best apps I have ever used. When I open the app, it provides a list of moods / situation I might be interested in and on selecting it shows me few playlists. The options are never daunting. They are usually around 3-4 and something that easily fits in the display screen. The quality of playlists was outstanding. They were not crowd sourced but created by "music experts". Besides the simplicity of the process, what always stood out for me was the moods suggestions was almost always spot on. I once opened the app during late evening while I was cooking and one of the moods was "Cookout Session". When I opened the app before driving, one of the suggestions was "Long Drive". 

An effective recommendation system with a simple user experience backed by great content is what keeps people hooked and have them coming back.


#### d. Select one of the platforms you mentioned above and discuss how
long does it take to create great content for this platform?

With Netflix, which started around 1998, they must have started with a collection of few hundred titles that are popular. They must have scaled to more copies and titles as their customer base grew. I would estimate that this must have taken them 3-4 years to scale and ensure growth.  As it became difficult to satisfy the demands of popular titles, they implemented the queueing system so that if users don’t have the titles they want they can still get other titles they are interested in. The queueing system also must have helped them decide on the quantity of discs need for different titles and which new titles they should order. I assume this must have taken them around 2-3 years to flesh out the queueing system and to gather content based on this demand. I would say that their content was large enough and covered most of the titles that were available on discs.  So overall this took them about 8 years.

While they were growing, they started the streaming service around 2007. They initially had very few titles available on streaming. In the next 2-3 years, more titles were added before they made streaming their main source of revenue. Each year since they have added more and more content to the streaming service through licensing deals. They also lose a few titles every quarter/year. 

They first got into original content production in 2013. That is 6 years since they launched the streaming service. It is 2017 and they are now planning on spending $6 billion on original content for next year. While the quality of the original content varies, their strong growth suggests that they are doing it right and that the customers are satisfied with the content.

#### e. How is the content of the platform you chose organized, and why is that effective?

Netflix lays out the content in a grid like format with each row representing a category. I can swipe across a row from left to right to browse content within the category and swipe up and down to browse across categories. I find this effective because this behavior is same on phone, tablet or my TV. 

While browsing, if a movie is highlighted, the top part of the display shows the movie title, length and a short blurb. This makes it easy to quickly and clearly see what the movie is about. It also shows different screenshots from the movie, which can make the movie intriguing. They run A/B tests to decide which image is most effective for a movie. 

What I don't find effective is the inconsistent order of listing of the categories. Sometimes the "Continue Watching" section is at the top and sometimes "Trending" and sometimes I have to make many scrolls to get to the "Continue Watching" section. Again, this could be part of another A/B test so hopefully they get to the right layout for me soon.

Getting to content outside of those listed in this front layout is easy enough. I hit the menu button and get to the search option. As I type each letter I type, the app provides an auto-complete list of terms I might be searching for. I can also search by Cast/Crew. Another neat feature is if I don't find a film I am looking for, it lists the titles that are similar to the film.




### List the top 5 narrative experiences that moved or impacted you and why (movies, games, books, etc)
* Hotline Miami (Game)
* Tree of Life (Film)
* Spiderman: Homecoming (Film)
* The Lathe Of Heaven (Book)
* Lagaan (Movie)

#### a. Explain why each of these impacted you

**Hotline Miami (Game):** One of the first things that I loved about this game is its retro 2D design reminding me of the games I played as a kid. The music, colors and graphics have been designed in a way to evoke feelings of a hot summer in Miami in the 80s. Even before I started playing the game I was already in love with it. 
 
In the game, you play a hit man who is receives strange phone calls instructing him to commit murders against a local mafia. Each assignment involves cruising on a bike to a location and each location has a different layout of rooms and floors. Each room is occupied by thugs, loaded with weapons, and some dogs thrown for in good measure. The game play involves rampaging through the rooms and killing them all using a combination of weapons and stealth. So you can be really creative with your execution and you are rewarded for daring strategies. 
.  
The graphics include lot of gore and the soundtrack adds to the fun. Each level gets more challenging but never daunting. When you are playing the game, you are completely zoned in.

**Tree of Life (Film):** I have seen a few religious and spiritual films but few have caught my imagination and wonder like Tree of Life did. Terrence Malik is known to make abstract films with minimal plot. In the first half hour or so, I wasn’t quite sure what to make of the film. The films drifts between the past and the present of a family showing glimpses of their lives and problems. A death in the family causes the characters to introspect their lives and question life itself. Through all this I was a mere spectator.  But then the movie goes into back in time and by goes back I mean goes all the way before humans existed. There is a long montage scenes showing how life came into being, how nature supports life and death. The scenes included dinosaurs and shots of outer space. This lasted for about 20 minutes and I was hooked. The imagery was stunning and in a weird way it helped me relate to the movie and to the characters. I could see what Malik was trying to achieve at a spiritual level questioning life, God and our purpose in this planet.

**Spiderman: Homecoming (Film):** I was skeptical of this film because this is the second reboot in like 5 years and I didn’t think it needed one. But after seeing the film, I understood why they wanted the reboot and I appreciated how they implemented it. This reboot was made for teenagers and to make sure that their generation is also hooked onto the Marvel universe. They also wanted to make Spiderman appeal to a wider audience and it achieves this remarkably well.  
The main crux of the story is how a 15 year old Peter Parker makes himself worthy of being considered for the Avengers. To begin with, they didn’t spend any time on how Peter Parker became Spiderman. This already sets it apart from the previous reboot. The movie introduces Peter Parker through a video blog of his life at the Avengers headquarters. He is over excited and can’t contain. This makes him immediately relatable to teenagers. And I really appreciated that Peter’s friends and classmates were people from different ethnicities. I will go into other details about why I loved this film in the next question.


**The Lathe Of Heaven (Book):** I am more of a visual person than a reader. Having said that, this book set my imagination going like no other book. This science fiction novel tells the story of a man whose dreams have the ability to alternate reality. The possibilities with such a scenario are limitless and the author setups an intriguing storyline with conflicting philosophies. I was amazed that the author could set up a visual world of altering realities through words.  


**Lagaan (Movie):** I come from India and movies and cricket are hugely popular in our country. What also drums up popular sentiments amongst the general population is patriotism especially by rekindling the colonial era. 
Lagaan, released in 2001, used all of this in its favor to produce a blockbuster. The film is set during the British rule in a small remote village. The premise is that the villagers must win a cricket match against the British if they have to avoid paying unjust taxes. The film used all of the stereotypes and clichés one could expect from a sports movie but it is still well told and makes for an entertaining watch. But what was most impactful for me was watching the movie in a packed theater. 

The second half of the movie was just the whole cricket match and the atmosphere was like watching a live game in stadium. Every minute of the movie was loudly cheered with audience jumping in their seats. 

The director, before writing the movie, toured around India and saw movies at different theaters to understand what works with the audience. From the audience response, I could tell that the director knew exactly what would click with them. 


#### b. Choose one and describe in more detail what the building blocks that make it fantastic

I would like to write about Spiderman: Homecoming (major spoilers ahead). The movie opens up with the introduction of the villain, Adrian Toomes. What I liked about his character is that he is no evil genius but just an average hard laborer who feels he has been done wrong when the authorities take away work that has been legally contracted to him. Toomes’s motivations are not entirely wrong.  You can empathize with him because he wants to earn a living for his family by working hard.  So, the film, in its opening sequence, has already set up an interesting villain. 

Without wasting any time on Spiderman’s origin story, we are introduced to Peter Parker who is very excited to do his first “real” work for the Avengers. He spends time around his neighborhood helping fight small crimes and spends his time at school just waiting for that one big moment. His impatience and the audience’s own need for action sets up a nice build up for when the big action moments finally hit the screen. 

All through middle section of the film, Spiderman/Peter Parker gets many chances to prove that he is ready for the big league. But few mistakes happen in his pursuit and the Spiderman suit, provided to him by the Avengers, is taken away. Peter’s pursuit to prove himself is what drives the film. The plot’s conflict also comes from the choices Peter has to make between fighting crime and spending time with his friends. You feel for the character because he is still in his teens and he should be enjoying his life rather than worrying about crimes. In the end of the film, all of these problems are not resolved but you do get a sense that Peter has matured over time and is indeed ready to tackle the bigger problems in life. 

A good story should still be able to pack in a few surprises. One such surprise is when Peter goes to his date’s home to pick her up, it is revealed that the girl’s father is Toomes. This is a surprise to Peter and us. Peter knows who Toomes but Toomes doesn’t know that Peter is Spiderman. In the next few minutes, through a car ride, Toomes is slowly able to detect that he is Spiderman. The whole scene is very suspenseful and beautifully executed and it is a great build up to the finale.  

All through the film the action scenes are excellent. There is a neat buildup of tension and excitement. The special effects are not over the top and the audience are fully aware of the spatial arrangement of the characters so it is easy to follow the action. It also knows when to end the action after it has peaked.




4. Project Management: It's June 1st. You are responsible for shipping the Fall Fashion edition of Glamour magazine, which must hit stores on September 1st.


Phase 1 : Week 1 -2
* Decide on the theme/celebrity/fashion focus and research goals  
* Determine articles and features and contributions from each team.
* 

Week 2-7
Work on actual articles and photos
Week 7-10
Test, Fine Tune

Week 8-9
Final sign ofs

Week 10-12
Submit for print

Week 13
publish and distribute

a. What are the key sets of activities / workstreams that need to be completed to get the magazine assembled and onto store shelves? Please be as detailed as possible and think about the entire magazine production process.
 
b. What are the key milestones / checkpoints for producing and shipping the magazine?
c. Please provide a calendar / chart showing the timelines for each key activity, along with key milestones.
d. What are the major risks to completing this project on time? (a paragraph)
competitor / celebrity
e. What does the team structure for creating the magazine look like?
f. How would you track progress with various members / functions of the
team you’ve structured?
g. 2 weeks before the project is supposed to launch, you realize that
there is a month of work outstanding. What do you do? Please be as specific as possible when talking about deadlines and activities.



1.	Project Management: It's June 1st. You are responsible for shipping the Fall Fashion edition of Glamour magazine, which must hit stores on September 1st. 

a. What are the key sets of activities / workstreams that need to be completed to get the magazine assembled and onto store shelves? Please be as detailed as possible and think about the entire magazine production process. 
The first activity that needs to happen is discuss what will be the theme for the fall magazine. It could be a focus on a celebrity, fashion designer, a trending style, country/city etc. For this to happen there should be a general consensus across teams and it should receive approval from them and the executives. The decision could be based on market research, reader feedback, and business goals. This also provides the focus for the different teams and drive their strategies. 
The next phase of the project is a combination of content creation and defining the strategies for the marketing and distributing the magazine. The Editorial team and the Design team are responsible for developing the content and the layout of the magazine. A fashion magazine like Glamour would include sections for Fashion, Beauty, Health, News, Features (specific to the theme), Interviews, Editor’s letter, Letters from the magazine and many pages of advertisements. Glamour is a UK based magazine but they will likely have goals to reach a broader audience. I will categorize this team as the International Editions team that is spread across the world. They will also work with the Editorial team and contribute to the content.
The editorial team would be divided into smaller teams each responsible for the section mentioned above. The advertisements would be the responsibility of the Business Development (BD) team and the Ad Creatives team. The BD would partner up with clients interested in advertising with the magazine and agree upon the deals for the fall magazine. The Ad Creatives then take on the task of working with the clients, and setting up the ad pages through designs and photos.
Most articles require photographs. The Photography team would work with editors, journalists and other content creators to identify what photos are needed and submit them in time. 
The Editorial team, the Design team and the Ad creatives need to sync up every week so that they all get a general feel of how the magazine is coming up. They should have a working draft of the magazine that is discussed in the sync up meetings and make sure that it aligns with the goals and the themes of the magazine. 
The Digital/Web Applications team will be responsible for the website and digital editions of the magazine. They will help prepare the working draft that is shared across team during this content generation phase. Once the final draft is ready they will be sent to the Publications team for printing the content and set up a beta version of the website to be shared across the organization. 
The Marketing and Branding team need to work with the Editorial to know what content is being covered and prepare their online and offline marketing strategy so that closer to the launch date they can launch the promotion work. 
The final phase is verifying the content and running the magazine through a quality assurance process for both the print and the digital editions. This will mean sign offs from the Legal team, the Marketing and Branding team and the executives.
After the sign offs, the draft can be sent for publishing and let the Sales and the Distribution team handle distributing the magazine through the various channels. The beta version of the site can go live on 1st of September. 

Finance team check in. 
 
b.	What are the key milestones / checkpoints for producing and shipping the magazine? 
I would divide this project into 5 phases. 
Phase 1 is alignment across different teams on what is going to be the main key element and theme for the fall magazine. The key milestone for this phase is a document with the goals and themes for the fall magazine clearly defined and signed off. 
Phase 2 is clearly defined deliverables from each team. 
Phase 3 is the content generation phase.  The main checkpoints should be with the digital version of the working draft. The draft should make progress each week. The milestone for this phase is a final draft of the magazine.
Phase 4 is the Quality Assurance and Verification of the final draft and corrections to be made if any. The milestone here would be sign off from all the teams and the executives on the final draft.

Phase 5 is publish and distribution of the magazine with the key milestone being that the print and the digital editions of the magazine are launched on Sept 1.




c.	Please provide a calendar / chart showing the timelines for each key activity, along with key milestones. 

d.	What are the major risks to completing this project on time? (a paragraph) 

Celebrity cancelling off photo shoots. 
Theme covered by competitor magazines.
Major scandal/news affecting the fashion industry late into the publishing process and making changes might be undoing a lot of work.
Legal and copyright issues. 
Problems with our distribution channels which could affect the revenue.
Lack of funds for pursuing marketing and branding stratergy. 
e.	What does the team structure for creating the magazine look like? 

f.	How would you track progress with various members / functions of the 
team you’ve structured? 

Jira tickets. 
g.	2 weeks before the project is supposed to launch, you realize that 
there is a month of work outstanding. What do you do? Please be as specific as possible when talking about deadlines and activities. 


2 weeks is close to when we expect the draft to be sent for publications. If at this time there is a month of work then I would hold up on the publication and identify which work is left out. I would prioritize them and identify if it could be replaced with other articles. We have have a long publishing history and we should be able to cover it with articles that did not make it before. Find out how it affects our revenue goals, check with marketing and research team on what other content would be useful. If possible commission work from third parties. If we don’t have enough content ti replace with then we just go ahead with fewer pages.



